---
layout:   post
date:     2019-4-21 18:52
location: Fischerinsel, Berlin, Germany
---

The second module of
[*How to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals*](https://www.edx.org/course/how-to-achieve-the-sustainable-development-goals).
focuses on six transformations. These are, according to Jeffrey Sachs, the
systems-level transformations necessary to achieve the SDGs:

1. **Education, Inclusion, Jobs, and Growth**
    1. Universal education  
    *Guarantee access to primary and secondary education. Ensure that everyone has the skills to succeed in a digital economy.*
    1. Gender fairness  
    *Ensure that parents keep their daughters in school. Empower women to earn income.*
    1. School-to-work transition  
    *Help graduates find jobs. Mentions Germany's apprenticeship program as a model to be copied.*
    1. Labor standards  
    *Eliminate forced labor, slavery, and child labor.*
    1. Innovation  
    *Invest money in research and development. Build research institutions and a research culture.*
1. **Health and Wellbeing**
    1. Universal health coverage  
    *Train nurses and doctors in all areas. Provide public health insurance system.*
    1. Integrated health system  
    *Health outreach, data analysis, and education through community health workers and apps.*
    1. Social health  
    *Needed transformation not described*
    1. Environmental health  
    *Prepare for environmental threats: air and water pollution, heatwaves, etc...*
1. **Clean Energy and Industry**
    1. Zero-carbon electricity  
    *Transition to wind, solar, hydroelectric, geothermal, biofuel, ocean, and nuclear power. Improve storage and long-distance electricity transmission to counteract weather-based fluctuations.*
    1. Electrification of appliances  
    *Move consumers to electric choices, such as electric cars. Figure out clean energy solutions for air transport and container ships.*
    1. Energy efficiency  
    *Smarter appliances and buildings, so less energy is needed to begin with.*
    1. Industrial pollution  
    *Use biodegradable materials. Recycle waste. Promote green chemistry. Transition to circular economy.*
1. **Sustainable Food and Land Use**  
    Agriculture is probably the greatest reason for environmental problems: Greenhouse gas emissions, loss of biodiversity, and pollution
    1. Sustainable food systems  
    *Use more-productive crops. Increase yields. Reduce post-harvest losses. Promote restoration and reforestation.*
    1. Strong boundaries  
    *Protect certain regions from agriculture. Limit the amount of fishing.*
    1. Diet  
    *Reduce meat consumption.*
    1. Supply chains  
    *Increase responsibility of entities for the supply chains they are involved in.*
    1. Planning  
    *Systematic land-use planning for food, habitat, and carbon storage. Set clear boundaries.*
1. **Smart Cities and Transport**
    1. Smart infrastructure  
    *Transition to all-electric cities. Promote electric vehicles and electric public transport. Expand green spaces.*
    1. Zoning patters  
    *Move to high-density, walking cities. Increase mix-used housing.*
    1. Information and communication  
    *Expand broadband internet access. Make city data available for business, research, and citizens.*
    1. Resilience  
    *Implement food-control measures. Implement sustainable water use to combat droughts. Prepare for sea-level rise.*
    1. Intercity transport and infrastructure  
    *Set up electric rail systems and intercity fiber connections. Manage shared water effectively.*
1. **Digital Technologies and E-Governance**
    1. Access to Internet  
    *Grant universal access to the Internet.*
    1. Identity  
    *Establish safe, reliable, and private online identity for citizens (such as the Aadhaar system in India).*
    1. Online payments  
    *Enable digital access to financial and banking services.*
    1. Governance  
    *Make government services available online. Enable e-voting. Strengthen citizen privacy.*
