---
layout:   post
date:     2018-12-02 20:48
location: Orbis House, Denver, CO, USA
---

I spent hours today working on the contract for working with our UI/UX friend
Alex. About four hours, I think &mdash; and that's on top of all the time I
spent contemplating this for the past few days.

Why did it take so long? Not because of the contract. That's fairly standard (we decided to build off a template provided by a website called [Bonsai](https://www.hellobonsai.com/a/design-contract)).

What took so long was identifying and writing down the precise scope of work:
Which UI screens do we need? What form of documentation? Which image formats?
Mobile or desktop? Or both? What process should we use? How many rounds of
revisions? What information should be on each page? The list goes on!

Prior to now, we were working together without any precise guidelines. We had
sent Alex a long list of screens that we need, with all the information and
actions that needed to be on each screen. But other than that, not much was
discussed. And, I believe, it led to bits of frustration: Alex was doing a lot
of work, only for us to then ask him to change it. He could have saved quite
a bit of effort if some of those details had been discussed upfront.

So here is a big takeaway: **Clear expectations and boundaries are important.**
They help protect both Alex and us: Alex by limiting the number of revisions and
requests that we could make and us by steering Alex' work in the direction that
will result in the end product that we need.

I had (mistakenly) believed that putting everything into writing would be overly
formal, make the process feel transactional and artificial, and put restrictions
on Alex' creative genius. But yesterday, after putting everything on paper, he
told me that having these clear
guidelines in place actually motivated him. This does not appear to be unique to
Alex: Looking at the
research out there, there's strong agreement that clear expectations
lead to increased employee (or contractor) engagement.

I'm still a little unsure as to why
exactly the clear expectations are motivating. If any of you know, please reach
out. I'd love to learn!
