---
layout:   post
date:     2018-11-28 23:16
location: Orbis House, Denver, CO, USA
---

It's already pretty late and we have our big meeting tomorrow &mdash; with the
Google Drive team! So I'll keep this short and go to bed soon.

We had various mentor meetings and meals today. I'm extremely grateful for all
the people that are supporting us on a personal and professional level - we
could not do this without them.

Here are the questions we 'rehearsed' for our meeting with the Drive team:
- *What do you want to get out of this meeting?*  
  Establish a long-term relationship &amp; hear their thoughts on open
  collaboration
- *How can we be helpful?*  
  Connections, advice, mentorship
- *What kind of connections do you need?*  
  Product managers, technical writers, engineering teams &mdash; anyone who
  works at the intersection of tech and business or tends to collaborate on
  documents with a group of people
- *How much money do you need?*  
  We have enough money to cover our living expenses for the next ~ 6 months.
  We are not sure if we should raise money to hire a third person (full-stack
  developer). Pro: faster development. Con: huge investment ($$$ and time),
  very risky.
- *Why did you start Openly*  
  To bring open collaboration principles to the social impact space


A question that we need to make sure to ask Google Drive about is whether they
are interested in copying our product (since one of the most frequently voiced
concerns is that Google will build a similar product to ours and outcompete us)

**Mood:** Excited (for our lunch with Drive)  
**Happiness:** 7/5
