---
layout:   post
date:     2019-8-29 18:13
location: Hamburg, Germany
---

**Post-mortem (5 months after quitting)**

Openly is dead. I left Singapore five months ago thinking
that maybe we would continue in one way or another. But nothing has happened.

Whenever I meet early-stage entrepreneurs, it always brings up memories of
Openly. I have to admit that a part of me misses working on a startup.
I miss the thrill of uncertainty. And I miss creating something valuable
from scratch.

The reality is that I miss startup life more than I miss Openly. Openly was
great in many aspects: We had enough cash. We had great team dynamics. We had
the technological know-how. We had a vision that still inspires me today.

But **what Openly did not have are users** (and don't even mention
customers). We did not have users because **we were unable to find a specific
pain point** that we could and wanted to solve.

So after 18 months of running Openly, we quit. Theoretically we could have
continued looking for pain points, but I could not do it any more. I ran out of
motivation. And once motivation was gone, so was my energy.

I have had a lot of time to think about the "mistakes" we made. I'm putting
mistakes in quotation marks because startups are so much of a gamble. For every
"mistake", you will certainly find hundreds of startups that succeeded either
despite or **maybe even because of** committing the "mistake".

This is the single most important change I would make: **focus on getting paying
customers from day one**. Not building an MVP. Not getting lofty commitments
from people to use your product. But finding someone who finds so much value in
what you are creating that they will pay for it.

And I would continue after finding one. I would want at least three paying
customers. But five is even better. Or one hundred.

Chasing paying customers forces you to **face the cold hard truth from day one:
Are you solving a real pain point that somebody is willing to pay for?**
If you are not, no problem. Just try something else. The sooner you do, the
better.

Again and again I meet people who pour their hearts and minds (and money!) into
building a shiny app or website. They do this before they have any users.
Do not do it! It's like shooting an arrow with both your eyes closed. Yes, maybe
you get extremely, extremely lucky and there's a target in the direction that
you are firing. But why don't you open your eyes first, find a target worth
firing at, and **substantially** increase your odds of success!?

By all means, create mock-ups and drafts and power point slides if that helps
communicate your ideas. But don't spend too much time on it. My personal policy
now is that any pre-user prototype must not take more than a week to develop.
After that it must be shown to customers.

For the prototype, forget about clean code, test-driven development, and
scalability. Hacky solutions and bugs are ok! You can always write your clean
software once you have your paying customers. Even then I would be
careful with premature optimization: it seems pretty safe to assume that
you will have to do a complete rewrite sooner or later anyway.

So that's my failure story. What's yours? Write to me at
[@FinnWoelm](https://twitter.com/FinnWoelm).
