---
layout:   post
date:     2019-1-14 14:07
location: Boeing 787, somewhere above Asia
---

After much back and forth, we decided to end our collaboration with our
designer friend Alex. We realized that we don't quite have sufficient
data/information necessary for designing UI screens. What we need at this point
is more of UI/UX research and less of UI/UX design.

It's not that Alex is unqualified to lead the research, but rather that
within the scope of our current work agreement it
would not feel fair to unload this completely new
requirement onto him. Plus, before any further outsourcing, we
need to reevaluate our financial status. But it's very
possible that we will work together again further down the road.

We wanted to document what we learned from our first time working with a
designer and first time working with a contractor:

- Setting clear expectations upfront is crucial. We thought talking about the
  details of a contract at the beginning would be overly formal, but it
  actually helps both parties to have very clearly defined expectations and
  deliverables.
- This may be unique to us, but we realized that the UI/UX *ideas* are much
  more valuable to us than the *polished screens*. I am guessing that's
  because we're decent at
  converting ideas into polished screens, but we're not so good at coming up
  with these UI/UX ideas in the first place.  
  To put these in other words, we eventually realized that a good 80% of the
  design value was in Alex' rough sketches. If we had known this at the start,
  we might have changed the contract to focus exclusively on really well-thought
  out sketches (as opposed to polished screens), and thus gotten even more value
  for the same effort/money (or the same value for less effort/money).
- We also noticed that intentionality really matters to us. The reason we were
  immediately convinced of Alex' logo design was due to his great level of
  thoughtfulness. If you have not seen it, I recommend you check out [his
  write-up about the thoughts that went into designing the Openly bee](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HnZK2u1mZRP3xzOXweF49uEzrl38sDO8Gs44lvNfMVw/edit?usp=sharing).  
  We initially did not know that intentionality and thoughtfulness was so
  important to us. One mistake we made with the screens is that we did not ask
  for the same level of explicit intentionality. Alex probably put a good amount
  of thought into his screen drafts, but we failed to ask him to make that
  thinking explicit and thus had a difficult time understanding why one screen
  design should be superior to another.
- Lastly, we realized that (at least for us), the *why* in UI/UX has to always
  precede the *what*. This goes along the lines of the previous point about
  intentionality (why) being more important than the implementation (what). But
  I wanted to make it a separate point to note that I believe we missed a
  crucial design step when we started working on screens: We jumped too quickly
  into what and spent too little time in the why. First, we should have done
  research into what use cases and user groups (power user, first time visitor,
  ...) exist for Openly and then designing with those groups in mind.

I think it's fair to
say that one of the most valuable outcomes of this collaboration is our
learning about what it's like working with someone external to your company and
how to best do UI/UX. And, of course, the bee logo! Thanks, Alex!
